I love museums have you guys ever been
to the Natural History Museum really
nothing in New York City so one of the
things that I do is I take my kids to
the museum recently took them to Natural
History Museum have my two sons with me
save unit data and we go into the front
entrance of the museum and there's that
amazing sculpture of Teddy Roosevelt out
there you guys know which one I'm
talking about
Sadie Roosevelt that's in there with one
hand on the horse bold strong sleeves
rolled up I don't know if he's bare
chested but it kind of feels like it and
on the left hand side of him is the
Native American walkin and on the right
hand side of him
as an African American Walker and as
we're moving up the stairs getting
closer to the sculpture my oldest son
who's 9 says dad how come he gets to
ride and they have to walk it stopped me
in my tracks it stopped me in my tracks
there was so much history we would have
to go through to try to explain that and
that's something I try to try to do with
them anyways that's the question that I
probably would have would have never
really asked but fundamentally what he
was saying was that doesn't look fair
dad that doesn't look fair and why is
this thing that's so not fair sitting
outside of such an amazing institution
and this question got to be wondering is
there a way for us to amend our public's
cultures our national monuments not
erase them but is there a way to amend
them now I didn't grow up going to
museums that's not that's not my history
my mother was 15 years old when I was
born she is amazing
my father was struggling with his own
things for most of my life
if you really want to know the truth he
only reason I got into art is because of
a woman there was this amazing amazing
fantastic beautiful smart woman four
years older than me and I wanted to go
out with her when she said you're too
young and you're not thinking about your
future so I ran on down to the junior
college registered for some classes ran
on back and basic it was like I'm
thinking about my future now okay can we
go out for the record she's even more
amazing I married her so when I randomly
ran down to the junior college and
register for classes I really wasn't
paying attention to what I was register
activex it so I ended up with the art
history class and I know a thing about
our history but something amazing
happened when I went into that class for
the first time in my academic career my
visual intelligence was required of me
for the first time the professor would
put up an image bold strokes of blues
and yellows and say who's that van Gogh
clearly that is Van Gogh I got this I
got a B in that class for me that was
amazing it in high school let's just say
I wasn't a great student okay in high
school my GPA was 0.65 decimal point
first six five so me getting a B was
huge huge absolutely huge and because of
the fact that I realized that I was able
to learn things visually but I couldn't
learn in other ways this became my
strategy this became my tactic for
understanding every
I wonder stay in this relationship
things were going well I decided let me
keep taking these our history classes
one of the last our history classes I
will not forget I'll never forget was
one of those survey our history class
anybody ever have one of those survey
our history classes where they try to
teach you the entire history of art and
a single semester I'm talking about cave
paintings and Jackson Pollock like just
crunch together all in this egg it
doesn't really work but they try anyway
well at the beginning of the semester I
looked at the book and in this 400 page
book was about a 14 page section that
was on black people and painting now
this was a crammed in section that had
representations of black people in
painting and black people who painted it
was poorly curated let's just put it
that way
nonetheless I was really excited about
it because in all the other classes that
I had we didn't even have that
conversation we didn't talk about it at
all so imagine my surprise when I get to
class and on the day that we're supposed
to go over that particular chapter my
professor announces we're going to skip
this chapter today because we do not
have time to go through it oh I'm sorry
hold on professor professor I'm sorry
this is a really important chapter to me
are we going to go over it at any point
Titus we don't have time for this I'm
sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry please I
really need to understand it clearly the
author thinks that this is significant
why are we skipping over this Titus I do
not have time for this okay last
question I'm really sorry here um when
can we talk because we need to talk I
went to her office hours I ended up
getting kicked out of her office I went
to the Dean the Dean finally told me I
can't force her to teach anything and I
knew in that moment if I wanted to
understand this history if I wanted to
understand the roles of those folks who
had to walk I was probably I have to
figure that out myself
so above you right here on the slide is
it paining like bronze hauls this is one
of the kinds of images that was in that
chapter I taught myself how to paint by
going to museums and looking at images
like this I want to show you something I
made this I made some alterations you'll
see there's some slight differences in
the planning all this art history that I
have been absorbing helped me to realize
that painting is a language there is a
reason
why he is the highest in the composition
here there is a reason why the painter
is showing us this gold necklace here
he's trying to tell us something about
the economic status of these people in
this paintings painting is a visual
language where everything in the
painting is meaningful is important it's
coded but sometimes because of the
compositional structure because a
compositional hierarchy it's hard to see
other things
this silk is supposed to tell us also
that they have quite a bit of money
there's more written about dogs in our
history then there are about this other
character here historically speaking in
research on these kinds of paintings I
can find out more about the lace that
the woman is wearing in this painting
then I the manufacturer of the lace then
I can about this character here about
his dreams about his hopes about what he
wanted out of life I'm going to show you
something look I I don't want you to
think that this is about eradication
it's not the oil that you saw me just
put inside of this paint at glynn peid
oil it becomes transparent over time so
eventually what's going to happen is
these faces will emerge a little bit
what I'm trying to do what I'm trying to
show you is how to shift your gaze just
slightly just momentarily just
momentarily to ask yourself a question
why do some have to walk what is the
impact of these kinds of sculptures at
museums what is the impact of these
kinds of paintings on some of our most
vulnerable in society seeing these kinds
of depictions of themself or all the
time
I'm not saying erase it we can't erase
this history it's real we have to know
it I think of it in the same way we
think of let me step back step back a
second you remember you remember old
school cameras where when you took a
picture you actually had to focus right
you put the camera up and if I wanted
you and focus I would move the lens a
little to the left and you would come
forward I can move the lens a little to
the right and you would go back and the
folks in
background come up I'm just trying to do
that here I'm trying to give you that
opportunity I'm trying to answer that
question that my son had I want to make
paintings I want to make sculptures that
are honest that wrestle with the
struggles of our past but speak to the
diversity and the advances of our
present and we can't do that
by taking an eraser and getting rid of
stuff that's just not going to work I
think that we should do it in the same
way the American Constitution works when
we have a situation where we want to
change a law in the American
Constitution we don't we don't waste the
other one alongside that is an amendment
something that says this is where we
were but this is where we are right now
I figure if we can do that then that
will help us understand a little bit
about where we're going
thank you
[Applause]
[Music]